I want to get some notes from my recent call with blocking investor relations for discussion first on the free cash flow. It was a -$3 billion and 25. That’s because the entire entirety of the growth in the borough book was funded with Equity. That’s a $3 billion drag as a balance sheet or portfolio of the loans at SFS bank. They don’t think that’s going to be the model going forward they’ll be warehouse lines or deposits in 25 it just screwed so quickly that they didn’t have those in place I expect I don’t think it can be deposit driven anytime soon. There’s just not enough info deposits but there’s no reason why they can’t access a warehouse line. You probably need it to at least have 20% down to make a machine rework but maybe they start out with something like a 50% equity and 50% warehouse line which would free up substantial cash flow of the 3 billion that’s already outstanding and if they grew the loan book in 26 with a 50-50 equity and warehouse line I’ll have to go ahead and see what that would look like. It’s just still seems really hard for me for them to get to the 2.4 billion without withdrawing some of the 3 billion but if Cash App grows at 50 percent equity rate it still may be still going to be a huge drag. I can also go back and recast 25 free cash though for 50% equity rate to get maybe a better smooth number I would also not this gonna be severance in the first court of twenty six and second quarter of twenty six that are going to be a cash flow drag just optically. i’m correct on the Utah using the Utah Bank and it’s uncapped rate nationally that allows for them to export the license and charge higher rates than they did before so the Utah tank is clearly the cataract catalyst for borrowed loan growth and that’s kind of a troublesome problem. Of course they don’t see the 5% flat fee on a 21 day loan they don’t wanna look at the APR because it doesn’t revolve and it’s not compounding so I don’t think an APR makes any sense but nonetheless it is Utah bank that allows them to be able to do this in March states they would also note that either repeat borrowing they don’t see that as problematic they think people use it as earned wage access or early access to their paycheck and for income smoothing which I actually happen to like to earn wages access product this isn’t earned wages because there are no wages being earned but nonetheless it’s an income smoothing like EWA he also mentioned that people using borrow to build credit in the cash app so they don’t necessarily need it right now, but they borrow and pay it back and they’re using it so that they’re line goes up overtime in case they do need it. They can see this practically in the line increases, but block is going to expose the score. The cash app score to consumers later this year and then have some education on how to raise it. They don’t have a plan right now to expose this or externalized the score but they probably need a second half of 26 or 27. They might do this. That’s actually a public website which I will find for us where they’re still listening input on this now I would idea would be that either sub prime auto loans or Rental contracts or agreements no phone contracts insurance all need underwriting and they can do this easy as fast as and probably least strategic would just be to do act like a credit bureau when they get sense per pool, but there might be something more robust than that overtime in terms of subscriptions how to spoke a little about neighborhood network in terms of the investment thesis it probably is not in the top three things we need to know right now, but for management team what the company will look like in 3 to 5 years it’s really important to them and they have three things that they’re excited about the first is the design square seller and Cash App were really separate entities until they combine them in 2024 so there’s been the kind of a design change internally with these teams are now working closely together. They have a new head of ecosystem, which is Brian Graziani and he’s got a very good reputation and being a very big and important thinker in consumer apps and he’s the new neighborhood Architect and his plan is that he did not want to build it in a marketplace network like fashion like DoorDash or Uber where you need to get a lot of folks on one side a lot of folks on another side and order for the net network to scale and have network economies he wanted to work and be valuable to either side the seller or to the consumer, even if there were no network effects so for example, a consumer if it just went to one coffee store in your neighborhood and used it, it would be valuable to you and if the seller just got the online catalog, the in app ordering and the loyalty they’d be happy, even if not, a lot of consumers came so it didn’t require network effects to get off the ground and we should think about that right now that they’ve seen there seem terrific product market fit and the idea of your consumer goes into a local restaurant or coffee store that has the seller register and after the transaction it’ll say download the Cash app and get three dollars and if you don’t do anything, just go home the next time you swap it that register it it’ll say get six dollars if you download the Cash app and then go nine dollars and $12 and some people will download the Cash app and claim their three free dollars in local money which can be used anywhere local cash they call it that reward can be used anywhere. Some people will sign up for the cash app at three so we will wait till six similar wait till 12 but eventually they think they have a really low cost of acquisition either case to getting people there for 36912 $15 the cash app active is probably the KPI that will move first. Sellers are moving to auto enroll so they’re just gonna send an email saying hey you’ve been enrolled in neighborhoods if you wanna learn more click here if not, it just happens so the consumer facing display after you check out will show a QR code and offer the rewards whether the merchant, if the merchant doesn’t opt out of that, so that does sound interesting way to grow Cash App actives. here’s that for most important things. I think that we need to believe one is at Cash App. Greene is going to lift engagement. We should dig into that. I’m not sure if that’s true or not. The second is that the credit engine they built is differentiated and unique and can be prioritized and the underwriting is rebut. The third is that on the seller side the recent distribution changes iso field sales can keep seller, gross profit, growing double digits, including a faster growing international business and the fourth piece is that they can have differentiated products given their AI and in the cash app it’s gonna be money bought which right now is rolled out to 20% of Cash App users. We should explore that personally and then there’s on the seller side called manager bot that went from Alpha to beta just this week of March 10th it they do have square AI rolled out for seller, but this will be version two on a completely different data fabric and so they feel like they can be differentiated in AI about the consumer and the seller side