times were especially privileged to have them on the club. Before we get started, I do need to mention that conflict disclosure is as related to the individual companies and securities discussed on the call today can be found on the call invitation. Additionally, this presentation contains forward looking statements, based on data technologies, current expectations, these statements, and low risk, and uncertainties, that could cause actual laws to differ materially, factors that could cause results to differ, discussed intel technologies, periodic reports on forms 10K or 10Q followed the SEC, any forward looking statements made today are based on assumptions as of today, and tel technologies on it, like, no obligation to update them.  We have a lot of ground to cover here today. We're gonna talk to, hopefully, a broad breath of topics, including AI, memory, PCs, cap allocation, lots of exciting stuff to cover over here with Michael. So, as you all know, and Michael really needs no introduction, but, but Michael really started, founded Dell Technology with $1,000 in 1984 at the age of 19.  He became the youngest CEO ever to earn a ranking on Fortune 500. His minicycles, lots of portfolio changes, including, you know, the acquisition of EMC, the go private transaction back in 2013, spinning out reimbursed 2021, uh, pro systems, uh, buying and selling somewhere in there. And now, now we're architecting the company for the age of AI.  And, and beyond thorough of the success in business, Michael, alongside his wife, Susan, founded the Michael and Susan Dell Foundation in 199. based on really expanding opportunity, so initiative spanning education, health, and family economic stability. And most recently, I'm sure you've all seen the foundation announced this 6.25 billion, that's with a B billion dollar philanthropic commitment to help seed investment accounts for 25 million U.S. children, and that was incredibly generous, Michael, and we hope many others will follow your lead here to lead this next generation to success. That's just really incredible.  So we're really fortunate to have you here. Welcome, Michael. We really appreciate you taking the time to be with us here today.  Well, thank you, Omsie. Great to be with you, and thank you for the kind introduction. Happy to discuss all this.  Well, thank you so much, Michael. So, to get started, uh, you have reinvented Dell from, from PCs and peripherals to server storage networking, and now AI. And you seem pretty all in on AI, now, with revenues going to a turn of the company in just three years.  So, how do you see AI changing the tech landscape and what you see as Dove's opportunity here? Yeah, I think you have to step back and understand that we're shifting from calculating and computing to thinking and intelligence, which is just a fundamental change. And the value of that, and the opportunity for that, is enormous, and, uh, certainly, you know, if you look at our AI server business, you know, went from $2 billion to $10 million to 25 billion, we're expecting, you know, 50 billion this year.  We're still in the seat part of the S curve adoption of the technology. We have, you know, 4,000 plus customers. You know, using these AI factories.  And look, I think if you, if you think about sort of this thinking intelligence platform, you've got 114 trillion dollar economy, if you get a little bit of productivity improvement with AI tools, it's worth an enormous amount. And so, while there's a ton of investing going on here, uh, you know, it's at least possible that the world is under investing in this, given, you know, it's potential, and, uh, it turns out that you need a lot of what Deltechnology has built over 42 years in terms of infrastructure, capability, server, storage, networking, and the support at services. uh, you know, uh, supply chain, et cetera, to be able to deliver that. And, you know, I think, I think maybe, uh, 10% of customers, maybe 15%, sort of understand what this could do, and the rest of them are still figuring it out.  It takes time for all this to kind of happen in the real world. I also think there are distinct phases of it. There's kind of the tools phase, which is what most people are doing.  You know, they're adding a tool here and there, and it helps people do their job and be more productive. That's great. There's a whole nother phase of this, which is really reimagining the workflows in companies.  And this is very, very different than tools, right? It involves... really rethinking how you get to a given outcome. And in many cases, this is just a big change inside companies.  Again, doesn't happen quickly, not easily, but you sort of go from, let's say, a 10 or 20 or 30% improvement with tools to a 10 or 20 or 30 X improvement, and, you know, there's certainly sightings of hundreds of X improvement in various processes and outcomes where you're just doing it very differently with agents and precursive self improvement, and all of that. So, super exciting time, and, uh, certainly there's a lot of demand for what we do. Yeah, no, that's incredible.  And so many things to touch on over there. Maybe, maybe, let's start with, sort of, you know, the comment you made about potentially under investing. I mean, a lot of investors are worried about hyperscalar CAPX budgets that probably exceeded anyone's forecast from two or three years ago.  But, and these companies have gone from a capital light to capital, heavy model, which is pressuring their own cash flows at the moment. So how do you see the sustainability of this CAPEC cycle, and how do you position Dell if the spending on AI was to either accelerate or decelerate? Well, um, it's certainly not decelerating.  You tell you that, you, uh, you know, um, we, we took, uh, 64 billion dollars in, in orders, uh, in, in the past year. The opportunity and the pipeline keeps growing. And, um, you know, to be clear, we're not putting it on our balance sheet.  We're still operating with the capital Y model. Uh, you know, when I talk to the hyperscalers, each of them view this as an existential, uh, issue for their business. And so they're all investing super aggressively.  Um, and, you know, again, I sort of go back to the size of the services economy and, uh, you know, the demand. What I can tell you is that when we deployed this infrastructure, time to 1st token is incredibly important because, uh, they're putting the infrastructure to work immediately, and it gets consumed. And, and so, there, there is just a ton of demand here.  I still think we're in the early stages of the adoption of all this. And we haven't even gotten to agents and, uh, the physical AI and recursive self improvement. And so, um, you know, certainly they're gonna be ups and downs here, but, you know, we we feel we're well positioned.  I mean, we don't, we don't actually make any commitments until we have actual orders, and and I think we've been pretty careful in in managing our, our, you know, sort of capital commitments and demand supply to make sure that we're ultimately converting this into free cash flow, which is what we focus on every day. Yeah, yeah, no, that's very clear. Uh, in some ways, this, you know, unprecedented CAVAX and demand for AI Data Center build out, it's just creating a lot of a kindness across this blind chain, whether it be from labor to cooling equipment, and memory, just to mention a few.  So, well, where do you see the biggest bottlenecks, and what are some of the opportunities and risks associated with these from down standpoint? So, um, you know, we kind of love it when there's a split change challenge, because that's kind of, uh... It's kind of like the Super Bowl for us.  We're, we're, we're, we're ready for that. So, um, yeah, I mean, you have to understand that, well, you can easily identify, let's say, 10 or 20 suppliers that work with Dell. There's actually thousands and thousands of them,?  And so it's a complex thing. Um, we have built a, a, a supply chain machine, and it's built on relationships, um, you know, obviously, we, we took our guidance up a lot. We have the supply for our guidance.  We're out looking for more supply. And, you know, if you just get back to what's going on here, there is extraordinary demand growth across the industry. And so you've got all sorts of constraints.  You know, one way I would describe the memory issue is, uh, I would say memory and advanced silicon is, it's kind of the 25 times 25. And what do I mean by that? So, you know, when, uh, when Nvidia came out with the H 100, it had 80 gigabytes of high bandwidth memory.  The current part has 288 gigabytes. Next year, you'll hear about parts with a terabyte, and the year after that, you'll hear about parts with two terabytes. So, from 80 gig to two terabytes is 25 times more memory per accelerator.  Okay? And in that time frame, you'll have about 25 times more accelerators. So 25 times 25 is 625 times.  I know most of you are pretty good at math, and it also takes about four years to build a new memory plant, uh, assuming you don't have shells already built, and, you know, if you wanted to have memory capacity in 2027, you would have made the investments in 2023. Now, if we dial back the clock to 2023, you might recall, it was a horrible year for semiconductors, particularly memory. Micron, in particular, had negative gross margin percentage.  Their sales went in half from 2022 to 2023. And the industry collectively lost $40 billion. A lot of them still had PTSD from that.  And, you know, they're, like, scared little puppies, you know, you know, some of them almost went bankrupt. And so, they're not, they're, they're sort of very careful about investing. And then if you go to the logic side, TSMC didn't increase its cap x in 23 from 22, didn't increase in 24. 25, they started to increase it, but not enough.  They're pretty conservative. And they're sold out. And so, yeah, there's big supply constraints, the good news is that, you know, we are not a model line company.  We can sort of move wafers around, across multiple product families, and again, we've had relationships. Jeff Clark's relationships and my relationships with these companies go back literally to the 1980s. Uh, and it turns out a lot of these companies are quite relationship oriented, particularly, um, you know, uh, some some of the Asian ones.  So, we feel that the environment advances us, and of course, scale. I mean, if you look at our scale, you know, our server and storage business is 4 times larger than, than, you know, any single competitor, generally, and we're larger than number two, number three, number four, all combined together, and we've also gotten really good in terms of our reaction time, in dealing with the changes in cost. And, and customers also know that we have a supply chain that works.  Now, nobody likes it when the price goes up. But even worse is if you can't get supply. And so, um, you know, we feel, we feel we're, we're well positioned for this, uh, kind, kind of environment.  No, that's great, and yeah, you guys have demonstrated time and time again, when there is supply chain disruption, you guys just somehow managed to out navigate everyone else, and that's just a testament to a very strong applied chain legacy that you've built at the company. I want to come back to memory, Michael, but seeing on AI, your AI revenues have just grown extremely fast, right? Like, from almost nothing to 50 billion in just a few years.  Most of this is tier 2 CSPs. When you talk to boards and CEOs, CFOs, how are they framing the ROI for AI? And when do you see enterprises start to maybe more broadly leverage AI and start to hit an inflection point?  And really, like, maybe walk into that? How does this change the margin in ROYC profile for Dallas, you think about those moving pieces? Well, I would say we're seeing it, Womsy.  I mean, there's substantial uptake in Enterprise and it's continuing to grow. Um, certainly, you know, the margin profiles will be more attractive than the CSPs, uh, because they're, they're gonna, they're smaller deals. It tends to be more, uh, you know, services and storage and networking, uh, and, and, uh, you know, the, the, the lowest cost token is the one that's generated closest to where the data is.  And enterprises have figured out that it's a hybrid world, and, uh, you know, these tokens are pretty expensive, and, again, we haven't even gotten to the whole, the whole, uh, agent, uh, activity, but inference is, is, is definitely taking off, and a lot of the use cases are, not super complicated, and a lot of the smaller models or open models work super effectively, and you probably know that the open models are not that far behind, maybe, maybe six months behind, depending on who you ask. And so, uh, we see, we see, you know, robust, uh, growth in in the enterprise, and, and look, I, I think, I think companies are going through, uh, uh, you know, a, an understanding here where, you know, I would say there's sort of different kinds of companies, right? There's companies that have said, Wow, this stuff is total game changer, and we better do this, or we're gonna have a big problem, uh, if our competitors do it, and we don't.  And then there's other companies that, organizations, that say, well, okay, our, this is our budget, and it doesn't really matter what's happening outside in the outside world. We're sticking with our budget. Okay?  I mean that'll kind of work until it doesn't work. But, um, I think over time, it's gonna be fewer of those. If you really believe that this is a game changer, and I, you know, put me down for that, I, I, we see it in our own organization.  We see it in our own productivity, um, you know, if you look at our own ROI, you know, if you want to measure free cash flow per person or revenue per person or a gross margin per person or however you want to measure it, Um, there's a ton of ROI here. And it's, worse, I believe, still at the beginning of this. Also, you need to think about, um, you know, in the, in the past, right, each of us, uh, processed data and tasks, and, uh, you know, we had projects, and tasks, and emails, and things, and we sort of do those at human speed, and, and we pass them off to the next person, and, Organizations and technology that are in organizations are a function of what was available at the time they were established.  Okay? And they get updated from time to time. So now, fast forward to, you know, let's say 2027, we have these agents that are able to process all these tasks, and they work way faster than humans.  They're way more accurate. They never sleep. And so, you can supervise 10s or 100s of those agents and fundamentally change the way work is done.  And so, um, there's just a whole rethinking and reimagining going on inside companies, but that will happen at very different speeds, right? You know, not every organization is going to be AI pilled and just, you know, throw everything and and redo their company, uh, immediately, kind of like we are, but, uh, I think, I think you'll see, I think you'll see more and more of that over time. And you'll see a stark contrast in the, uh, performance of companies, uh, you know, based on the rate pace of, that they do this.  I mean, we're kind of already seeing that. Yeah, no, it seems like the deluge of, sort of, usage of agents is just starting now, and we're starting to explore what these agents could do, and especially after open law, another reason development, there's obviously a lot more focus on it. Yeah, that's right.  We've gone from LLMs to reasoning, to agents, and now we have this recursive self improvement, and if you think it's gonna end there, you would be sadly mistaken. It's gonna keep going, and, you know, way to think about it is, we have this platform for thinking and intelligence, and you're going to need a significant number of innovations on top of that. And, you know, can somebody predict, consider what those are gonna be?  Not a chance. But, you know, uh, hold on. It's gonna be exciting.  Yeah, no, that sounds very much like, I think, when we first entered, either the cloud era, or the internet, or cloud, or mobile, like, each of these, we did not know this whole ecosystems that would form on top of that, which kicked off, like, many multimillion dollar businesses. So, um, seems like there is a lot of innovation yet in store, um, and, uh, you guys are gonna be obviously part of that. Uh, maybe, uh, Michael did to switch gears a little bit.  Fortunately, World is a little bit on a tumultuous place, and the Middle East turmoil. Do you see any sovereign buildouts that are potentially slowing, or do you take that now with, sort of, you know, maybe more of each country looking to procure its own infrastructure? There's more of an urgency to become self reliant, and actually the demand is becoming even stronger from a sovereign perspective.  Well, geopolitical tension is sort of the root cause for sovereign AI demand. And so, let's, you know, suppose there's a scenario, uh, where there's tension in the transatlantic partnership. You know?  Who knows? Maybe that would be a thing. Uh, well, all these countries in Europe, they don't want to be reliant on US AI, or USA thing, actually.  And so, uh, now, we remind them that, well, actually, uh, you know, we can't make these things without ASML, and there's all these companies in Japan, that make, you know, all sorts of gases and chemicals in South Korea and Taiwan, and it's not just the U.S. And so, um, to your customers, we're dependent on the world to make these things. Um, it's not, it's not just the U.S. involved, but, but, uh, you know, we have extensive factories in Europe, and, yeah, I think, uh, sovereign demand continues to grow, uh, some really good, uh, partnerships, like with Palantier, uh, and customers are looking for... You know, looking for the ability to run AI inside their country with their own private data, for all sorts of applications.  And we've had some great wins there. And, you know, think of it as any country in the top 25 of GDP, there's some sovereign thing going on there, whether it's a, whether it's the government themselves, or a Telco, or a separate company that is somehow affiliated, or connected back to the government, there's definitely, demand demand for sovereign AI. Okay, okay, no, that makes a lot of sense.  Um, maybe, Michael, like, just looking at, you know, your AI server business, historically, Dulles had fairly significant negative cash conversion cycle, and, you know, you kind of engineered about that whole concept across the whole PC industry to start with. But, as you, as you think about, AI becoming such a sizable part, almost probably going to exceed up very, very soon here. How do you think about whether or not it's important to have this negative cash conversion cycle across, across your company, or does it matter in your long term?  calculus on how you manage this business as you think about maybe the different sort of capital requirements associated working cap requirements associated with the business? It absolutely matters, and we're super focused on cash flow, and, you know, last quarter, our cash group versus cycle was flat sequentially. And, you know, we're taking all the best practices that we have, and applying that to the AI business, and, uh, you know, we're, as I said, pretty careful, we don't buy material till we have a P.O. from customers, and, and, you know, there's some cap X, but it's, you know, on our part, but it's pretty limited, and, you know, we feel very good about our ability to generate strong strong cash in this environment.  Okay, amazing. Maybe, you know, one of the questions we get off in, right, is just around the competitive differentiation in the AI market. Um, you guys have just, you know, really taken this to a new level.  I mean, you sort of beyond anyone, what anyone could have expected, the amount of revenue acceleration that you've shown, uh, your order book, um, you know, you just have very strong performance. So, what is it that's driving that differentiation? I know Jeff sometimes, you talk about level 11, 12 and deployment in sort of data center, you just mentioned, time to 1st token.  Um, you know, it just seems as though you're doing something different, and there is something that stands you apart from a lot of your competitors who are going through several issues of their own, uh, not just execution issues, but other issues beyond that. So as you think about, you know, A, where your differentiation is and B, um, you know, what are some of the opportunities given? Maybe some of the missteps and other issues that are there with other companies.  How do you think about that? Yeah, I would say, you know, we keep getting repeat orders from, from, from the same customers, and we keep winning over the customers that, let's say, were earlier reluctant, or had decided to go with somebody else. And, you know, there could be many reasons for that.  I don't think it's like just one thing. Um, certainly, we would start with our engineering. I mean, you know, we actually do it.  And lots of it, and, you know, it's not just in the compute space, obviously, storage is a big element of what we do, and, you know, we now have our lightning file system, our power scale, object scale, are doing super well, and, you know, building the whole, system, building all these systems to be reliable, networking, then you get into the deployment installation. We learned a long time ago that if you just ship these things to the customer, bad things happen. So we show up with an army of people and deploy them and install them.  And by the way, we get paid for that, and, you know, then you have service and support, incredibly important, and these things are deployed, all sorts of places around the world, wherever there's power. Uh, you know, we have broad ecosystem of partners, obviously, our supply chain, DFS comes into play. And look, we've been first to market now with the GB 200 with the GB 300, and, you know, I think the proof is in our consistent execution, and, you know, customers coming back, you know, for more.  Jeff Clark and I, at GTC, we had a dinner with a bunch of the, um, neo clouds and CSPs. Maybe all of them, actually, were there. They said it was the first time they were all in the same place at one time.  And, uh... had the demand from those customers is very strong, and they're happy. They're happy with what they're getting. I spoke with one of the largest ones this morning, and, you know, orders are, you know, their business is very strong.  And look, they know they can rely on us. I mean, I mentioned time to first token. I mean, we build these things ahead of time.  These things are unbelievably complicated, and, uh, you know, we've sort of perfected the precision, logistics, supply chain, engineering, where we can deliver hundreds of these racks, you know, in a given week, like clockwork, and have them show up, and within 24 or 36 hours, they're up and running, and they're generating money for the, for the, customer. So, um, our competitors don't seem to be able to do that reliably, and I would also tell you that, you know, Jensen, at at his various performances, you know, he does a great job on stage, and, you know, things come up, and it's like, blip, blip, blip, here come all the servers, and everything is looks fantastic. But it actually doesn't quite work that easily.  Uh, they have these things called reference designs, and the reference designs, um, I'll let you know, a little secret. You don't actually work. Um, you know, and, and there's, there's a lot of bugs in them, and, um, you know, we, uh, we find all the bugs.  And some of the bugs, only they can fix, and we tell them about those, because only they can fix them. And the rest of the bugs, that we find, that we can fix ourselves without them, we don't tell them about those. And I think that's why we keep winning, because we're building a more reliable product at the end of the day, and that comes down to engineering and, you know, discipline inside our whole engineering organization.  And I think it's very different from other... And, look, we do, we say what we're gonna do, we don't over promise, you know, we, we say we're gonna deliver it, we deliver it, and it works, and it's reliable, and you count on it, and apparently, the other guys, not so much. Yeah, no, that's a super interesting point, Michael.  So, when you think about maybe an analogy to industry standard servers, where, you know, I think maybe the level of complexity is definitely lower, um, and the level of differentiation might be lower. So the ODMs actually have meaningful share, um, in, in sort of the, at least at the hyper scalars, uh, for, for industry standard servers. It sounds like the differentiation and the engineering could be so different here with AI servers, that maybe the audience don't have the same kind of foothold, so the Han highs and the Qantas of the world, perhaps, don't actually take as much share of the AI server market, potentially.  Would that be, you know, something that you foresee as likely in the future? Well, the way I describe it is slightly differently, Mom. See, what I would say is that, you know, if you're a hyper scaler, you can afford to build a massive engineering organization to go and do some version of the kind of work that we're doing.  And, you know, those companies do work directly with the ODMs. Um, but I don't think there's a whole lot of companies that, that, that, that could do that. Uh, you know, and, and certainly, it would, it would not include the neo clouds.  You've got also hundreds of these, you know, now cloud native businesses that are consuming enormous numbers of tokens. No enterprise customers ever gonna try to do that. I mean, you're talking about an enormous engineering effort to do that.  And, and, and, and we still have, we still have, you know, some, some business with the hyper skillers, although that's not our main priority. Yeah, yeah. Well, that makes sense.  From a share person back then, right, you clearly have been growing very, very fast in air servers. How do you think about, sort of, a natural state of share for, for dell in AI servers? And there's been, you know, some disruption, definitely, at some of the other, larger, uh, piers, um, so to speak, who kind of struggled with, with various issues, uh, beyond execution.  Do you... In times past, has Del been able to capture incremental share because of those sort of worries and not just sort of on a temporary basis, but more structurally over time. Yeah, we've gotten some phone calls, uh, recently.  Um, panic phone calls from, from, from some customers. You know, I think in the Enterprise, you know, we're certainly advantaged there, and you just don't see the other competitors as much there. Um, and... yeah, I don't really know on the share.  I mean, we're, we're, you know, we're, we're, we're all fan asking the question how high is up in terms of the size of the opportunity, because we just keep seeing incredible ways of demand, and the elite times keep getting longer, and the orders keep coming in. Uh, so, um, you know, we're, we're, we're basically, uh, seeing, uh, some super robust forecast for future demand, and responding accordingly. Uh, but, you know, in, in, uh, core servers and storage, as I said earlier, you know, we are quite a bit larger than than others, and, and, um, uh, we seem to be growing, so...  Yeah, yeah, for sure. And going back... Yeah, I think we're still in the early stages of agents and multi agent systems and recursive self improvement that will drive demand even further.  Yeah. Yeah, no, that makes a lot of sense. Going back, maybe, to Michael, your point earlier about, sort of, the, you know, near death experience these memory companies have and had in, like, back a few years ago, 2 years ago, um, and, and now looking at, sort of, where we are, with memory prize inflation, sounds like not much new capacity is going to come online.  Uh, I think overnight, uh, Shamsung reported some preliminary numbers, extremely strong. Um, you know, memory prize increases both in DRAM and NAN for Q1, Q2 expected. So, can you maybe, like, I think people were very surprised to see your physical, uh, your guidance.  Um, because people felt like, well, this memory prize escalation, I mean, there was no way that, you know, anyone can navigate that, to not have a downy around here for earnings. You had sort of committed to a long term framework of 15% plus EPS growth, and frankly, you grill in higher than that now, we were talking about 25% earnings growth in this fiscal year, which is just astounding. So, is it, like, maybe you can have explained to investors that the secret sauce behind your ability here to overcome, you know, this intense margin pressure of the rest of the industry is seeing, and I'm sure you're seeing increased costs as well, but you're somehow able to navigate it much better than others.  So, what's the, what's actually happening behind the covers? What's, what are some of the levers that you are using in maybe across your business lines? That is helping more than offset the challenges of memory price increase.  Well, um, so, it shouldn't be super surprising that we're raising prices to protect gross margins, and, um, you know, we're very agile in doing that, so we're able to execute that very quickly. And, you know, we kind of saw what was happening, and we made appropriate, appropriate changes. Um, the other thing is, going back to what I said earlier, um, we're, we're, we're in a good spot in terms of supply.  Everyone is subject to the price increases. But, but again, you know, uh, let's say, let's say you're at Bank of America, or whatever bank you want to pick, or whatever customer, uh, it would be bad if the price of memory went up, but it'd be worse if you couldn't get it, right? Sure did.  And so, um... you know, we've translated that situation into a successful outcome. Um... I'll say there's probably some trade craft in there that I'm not gonna explain.  Uh, but, uh, we're we're doing very well in this environment. Michael, you mentioned our offprising increases, and obviously, you know, some of this is pretty visible externally. This, you know, industry standards overprising has gone up 30% to 100%, and I'm skewed.  Does this being significant price increases across, across the board? So, when you think about the impact of these prize increases on customers, what sort of buying activity are you thinking? How does that change the buying activity as these customers?  Do we anticipate a pull forward of demand, or is the demand so strong, and the value proposition of replacing the server is so great that, you know, we're going to see continued demand, or is it, like, you know, given your secret sauce and trade crap, like, you're able to take share, so even though there might be a pull forward in the first half, your share gains in the second half will let you do better than the rest of the industry. Like, can you frame how to think about how the customer demand might be changing, um, and the seasonality of that could be changing because of what's happening with memory prices and your pride increases? Yeah, I'm sure there's some pull forward, but we don't know how much.  We also know that there are some customers who will say, Oh, the price has gone up too fast. I think I'm gonna wait for it to come down, right? And who knows?  Maybe we'll come down. I mean, I'm sure, at some point, of wealth, but probably not, doesn't look like it's happening anytime soon. So, the problem, of course, is, you can delay the purchases for a while, and there is some demand destruction, certainly in low end phones and low end PCs.  But you, you know, there are... about a third, about 500 million of the $1.5 billion PCs in the world are four years old or older. Okay? And so, if you work at a company, let's say, with knowledge workers, and now you've got a four year old PC. This is a bad situation, right?  And so, you know, you're paying somebody $100,000, or whatever, to do their job, and they've got this decrepit tool that doesn't work very well, and they know it. And so, yeah, maybe you don't like that the price went up, but eventually, you're just gonna, you're just gonna pay the price. I mean, you can delay, you can defer, but, uh...  So, yeah, it's almost a question of when are they gonna buy, not, if they're gonna buy, uh, and then, and then with servers, we still have the majority of our installed base of servers, our 14G, or over. We're on 17G now, so that's a 7 to 1 consolidation benefit. And so, um, you know, I think, I think, um, customers are starting to figure out, you're gonna be, you know, your budget for tokens has to go up.  And so, uh, this just costs money. I mean, obviously, we've put all this into our guidance, and, you know, with respect to the second half, but, um... Yeah, I mean, uh, I, I do think these are the kind of environments where, where we tend to gain share, and, uh, you know, I also think different from the kind of 20, 2020, 2021 cycle, you've also seen us scale our cost structure.  It's a pretty extraordinary way. So we're kind of fit to fight here for the future. Yeah, yeah, no great point.  Michael, you mentioned, you know, obviously, some of your relationships with these memory companies go back, you know, for decades. When you think about, you know, what the hyper scalers are doing, they're starting to try to have long term agreements, um, with, with a lot of these parts of the supply chain, whether it be components, whether it's memory, whether it be, you know, optical. And they're investing aggressively into these companies in some ways.  And so, You obviously done a phenomenal job, you're just, you know, saying that, hey, you've got it on supply to take care of your guidance, uh, and you're trying to get more supply. So, is there, um, as you think about your discussions with, with these suppliers, is that changing in, in any way because of what these hyper scalers are trying to do, which is just really go in and try to walk up as much supply as possible? I mean, what I would say is, is, we have had long term agreements with a lot of these companies going back decades, and we continue to.  And obviously, the nature of those adjust, given the environment, and the demand from the overall industry. Also, I think you have to understand, you know, this, this whole intelligence thinking platform, it just uses memory in a very different way. And so, um, that's a big change here.  You know, it's, it's a lot less expensive to, um, to take a token that's already been generated, uh, and store it, uh, and, and pull out our memory, than, than to regenerate it, and say, you end up with, uh, a much faster growing, sort of pyramidal system of memory from SRAM inside the logic, to high bit with memory, to deram, to SSDs, to ultimately, you know, rotating storage still around. And so, um, yeah, we have agreements with them. Um, the demand is extraordinary.  We have the supply for the demand that, for the guidance that we've provided for the year, and we're working on getting more. And generally, from your perspective, the flavor of these long term agreements that you have had is generally where there is a supply guarantee for Dell, and then prizing could be some variable nature. Is that the right way to understand, sort of, most of these long term agreements?  Or would you characterize that as not right? Yeah, that's generally right. I mean, I think also, um, you know, well, well, some of them, uh, you know, can be very opportunistic in periods like this.  They're also quite concerned with the long term health of their business, and who the offtakers are over time. So, what do I mean by that? You know, these guys are investing tens of billions of dollars in these plants, and they want to know how they're going to sell their parts in next quarter, too, sure, but they really want to know how they're going to sell them in the next three, five, seven, 10 years.  And we've, we've always been a predictable, reliable, let's say, low volatility customer. Right? We don't we don't show up, uh, whether there's a disaster and say, Oh, we've got to have a whole bunch of memory.  We're there all the time. And we've been there all the time. And so that, I think, is super helpful, and also just the breath of our demand signal.  In the quality of our demand signal, is appreciated. And these guys have been whipsaw at the past by the hyperscalers, where they overbuild, and the hyperscalers turn everything off and stop by. That does not happen with our demand.  Our demand is a lot more stable, and that's appreciated, and that's part of the relationship. And also, we've treated them like long term partners, and, you know, they've generally reciprocated. Yeah, yeah, no, that's a great point.  Um, time's flying, we only have five more minutes here, and there's only more to talk about, so maybe, maybe quickly here. Uh, I do want to touch upon what Del is doing internally with AI. You mentioned agenta AI, you mentioned sort of productivity, different metrics, whether you look at it on a per employee, profit metric, revenue metric.  What are you doing with agentic AI within the organization? And where are you in that deployment, like, sort of cycle? So, I would say, we're rapidly hurling toward it, and, you know, if you look at our monetization, you know, we've been on this theme for several years, you've been hearing us talk about it.  Our opex has come down for four years in a row, which is pretty unusual. And, uh, you know, this kind of started, um, going in, in 2023, and we think there's still, uh, more to go, and, and significant scaling benefits, and, you know, we guided opex to a single digit percent of revenue that hasn't happened in 20 years. And of course, you know, we have a even more intensive, RD intensive business than we did 20 years ago.  Uh, it's 100% structural. There's tons of opportunity, and we're doing this while we're investing in our R&D, in our sales capacity, in our support, and in our supply chain. So, I would say I'm super bullish on our ability to generate productivity, and, you know, ultimately, that makes us a much more competitive company, opens up, you know, paths to profitable growth, kind of as you've been seeing.  So... Yeah, quite amazing. I mean, yeah, no, I adding 30 billion more on top line with very little incremental opex, so quite, quite amazing.  Maybe, you know, in the few minutes that we have left, our prior call, I think, with me, you said, you are the ultimate long term investor. How do you define success for Adele in the next 10 years? I would say, uh, you know, the last five years, we outperformed the Mag 7, with the exception of Nvidia.  Um, but in aggregate, we outperformed the Max Evans, including a video, but, but, uh, we outperformed every component, uh, accepted video. Certainly, you know, we look at our relative performance, you know, to the SAP, IT, uh, index, and, uh, you know, we see turbendous opportunities to continue to grow, generate strong cash flow. You know, you've seen our capital return policy has been super shareholder friendly.  Uh, buying back stock, we bought back 54 million shares of our stock. Uh, we increased the dividend by 20%. And, um, you know, I think you'll see us continue to generate strong revenue earnings growth, free cash flow, and the business should be a whole lot more viable.  And certainly, you know, if we, you know, certainly we would endeavor to outperform all the relevant benchmarks by a lot. Okay. Yeah.  You being, you are, continue to be a technologist at heart, and you have taken this company from, from basically, you starting into this, this amazing scale of, you know, $140 billion a year in revenue with...